6////    ALESSANDRO

- MUSIC GENRE CLASSIFICATION
<<<<<<< HEAD
Goodmorning everyone, we are the group 16 and today we have brought to you a research on musical genere classfication.
In particular we have developed a code based on Python language and machine-learning which is able to understand if a pieace of music belongs to a genere or another one.
It is able to do so thnaks to the features of a song.
=======
Goodmorning everyone, we are group 16 and today we have brought to you a research on musical genere classfication.
In particular we have developed a code based on Python language and machine-learning which is able to understand if a pieace of music belongs to 4 different musical generes 
(Metal blues hi hop and raggae).
It is able to do so thnaks to the features of a song. 
>>>>>>> 1efeea6e4bf1673af661fc2ea38789f557fbed24

- RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN LOW LEVEL AND HIGH LEVEL FEATURES
Features are characteristics wihch a song can have or not in common whith other pieces of music.
It is possible to distinguish between low-level and high-level features.
The low-level ones are objective chatracteristics of the time and frequency domain of a piece of music which can be directly interpreted by the machine.
On the other hand, the high-level features are more subjective characteristics (and thus harder for the machine to recognise) which the human brain uses

The goal of the machine is to link together the low-level and the high-level features in order to assign a song to a specific genere.
The low-level feature we have been using is the MFCC computation which Lorenzo is going to talk about.

////  LORENZO

- FEATURE DESCRIPTION AND MFCCs COMPUTATION

Music genres classification is really subjective. So, the best way to approach this problem is using the Mel Frequency Cepstrum Coefficient timbral descriptor. We chose this technique because it can be used as an excellent features vector representation of human hearing. Our auditory system, in fact, is extremely non-linear and Mel Frequency Cepstrum Coefficients allow us to obtain a similar non linear representation of the frequency spectrum. The formula on the slide represents, in fact, the non linear relationship between the Mel frequency and the linear one.

The MFCCs computation involves in the 6 steps shown in the slide.
The most important ones are the application of a Mel filter bank and the application of the Discrete Cosine Transform.

- FEATURE VISUALISATION

We used 18 Mel filter coefficients and, after the computation we obtained for matrices that include the feature of the training samples.
Each matrix contains the features of each genre.

//// ZACCARIA

- SUPPORT VECTOR MACHINE
for multi-class classification we use an SVM capable to perform a binary classification on a Dataset,
also called C-Support Vector Classification or SVC.
Since the division between the characteristics is defined by a hyperplane,
and the shape of this hyperplane is called kernel,
we have obtained the best results with a Gaussian type kernel

- MAJORITY VOTING
Once we have these training models, we analyse the audio tracks.
For each audio track, the six different SVM return a certain class as a result.
Then we apply the majority voting,
so the music piece is classified according to the genre that is returned the most times.

//// LUCA

- CONFUSION MATRIX AND EVALUATION OF THE RESULTS
At the end of the testing process, we evaluated how accurate the model is in recognising the musical genre of each analysed audio track.
Our choice was that of building a confusion matrix, a four-by-four matrix in which the rows correspond to the actual genre and the columns to the predicted genre.
Observing the main diagonal, we calculated the percentage of correct classification for each genre.
The recognition of the musical genre is not always so simple, in particular due to the fact that the considered musical genres have similarities in the typical instruments used or in their origins, but also because sometimes artists merge two or multiple known genres in a song.
Moreover, the musical genre is a high-level descriptor and is subjective, so it is not possible to ask a machine to be perfect in making a genre classification that has a subjective nature.
